The athletic career of Donald Metz is centered around baseball, but he was a fixture in all North Augusta sports in the late 1940s. From 1946 through 1949 he competed in football, basketball and baseball for the Yellow Jackets, Donald was Class President for three straight years and also elected Mister Senior 1949.\r\nAs a baseball player he earned his highest accolades, being selected All-State as a shortstop during the State Championship year of 1949. Donald played a vital role in the North Augusta march through Saluda, Jonesville, Duncan and finally Cheraw to win the state title. 

His desire to excel after high school involved extra class room instruction as well as additional playing time on the baseball diamond. Desiring an invitation to the United States Naval Academy, he spent countless summer hours under the guidance of Mrs. Paul Knox and Coach and Mrs. Ed Stillwell to prepare academically. His father would work with him on his baseball skills and he was given the opportunity to work out with the Augusta Tigers minor league baseball team in old Jennings Stadium, the same field that hosted such greats as Hank Aaron, 'Buffalo' Bill Johnson and Ty Cobb. 

A successful entrance into the Naval Academy included making the freshman baseball team. He played club football as a quarterback and led his team for the next three years as well captain of the squash team. In baseball, he lettered for three straight years from 1951 through 1953 and was voted team captain in his senior year of 1953. As a midshipman his record included 26 games as a pitcher with a lifetime record of 19 wins and only 7 losses. Donald’s career earned run average of 1.87 is a testament to his talent. His college stats include 194 hits given up, only 46 earned runs, 56 walks and 134 strikeouts. During his tenure, he was responsible for 61% of Navy’s victories, including twice defeating Army and earning two Navy stars. 

Donald Metz was watched by President Harry Truman during the 1953 Army - Navy game, was personally congratulated and had the winning ball signed by the President in his last appearance as a Navy athlete. 

Donald made the decision to join the United States Air Force after graduation and earned his wings flying the North American T-6 'Texan'. Donald Bernard Metz passed away in February, 1999 but not before leaving a footprint on many hearts around the world and especially here in North Augusta. 
